working closely with Lewis Paul and his
team will turn a miniature model of the
three T Rexes into a finished exhibit
the science will come alive through a
combination of art and engineering Lewis
came out here several months ago he
pretty much shifted things around to the
scenario that's going on here but again
we have a little Liberty because we want
to make these things to come to life
otherwise they just they just don't move
they don't look real fossilized bones
are essentially solid lumps of rock
which means that mounting them into a
skeleton is an enormous challenge most
of the bones are real which makes them
extremely heavy we're estimating that
the total weight of the bones is a
little over a ton the femurs probably a
good 200 250 pounds apiece and we have
to set those in place with special
reading devices having forbid one of
them Falls because it would take quite a
bit of time to get those back together
the entire skeleton will be held
together using a custom-made steel frame
which needs to be strong enough to
support the enormous weight of the
fossils this will fit in this will get
attached to this other section over here
and I'll take one of these ribs here and
I'm not sure exactly which one goes
where at this point this is number five
so it would lay down right in there that
will actually get screwed in at the
bottom and just settle itself right
right in here
like many t-rexes this one has been
given a nickname Thomas he's one of the
best t-rex specimens ever discovered but
is still only 70% complete the missing
bones will be made by Paul's team based
on over 30 partial Tyrannosaurus rexes
that have been found so far on this
particular rib you could see where the
real rib goes together with the
artificial rib and this is a section
that we had modeled and you can see how
it blends in with the real rib how it's
glued and it's also pinned on the
side so it doesn't break and these ribs
will break like icicles if you pick them
up the wrong way they'll just crack
break right apart but it's not just
about hanging the skeleton safely the
steel frame will be a work of art in
itself millimetre perfect and subtle
enough not to draw attention away from
the dinosaur punchin is filing down part
of the rib armature again this is
specifically made like a piece of
jewelry it has to hold a specific piece
in a special special way and he's at the
point now where he's starting to clean
up the welds and it's gonna be
absolutely gorgeous by time he's
finished the pose in which the dinosaur
is hung while being treatise ient we'll
also involve a degree of artistic
interpretation to really bring the
exhibit to life a little bit more of a
sine wave in it necklace it's a little
too flat it's not moving well myself and
Kevin have been working on the tail and
I have personally don't like the way it
looks and now we're gonna be actually
taking that down next week and putting a
slight bend in that to get it give it a
little bit more life but it's just a
visual movement for instance we might
change the toes just a little bit to
give this thing a sneaking feeling or a
pausing feeling but it's it's very very
very subtle you might move one toe just
a one-inch in one direction and that
changes how you visualize this whole
thing
you